hey guys so I took down all the fall
decorations and I noticed a lot of dust
so I thought I'd give my home a really
quick clean and especially in this room
so what I did was took off all the throw
pillows washed them all the throw
blankets I pulled up the couch I
vacuumed I pulled the rug out so vacuum
under that Owen bonkers crazy and then
you know what I noticed it looked
horrible when I put everything back it
looks so clean and naked so I thought as
I was putting things back I'd give you a
quick show of it because really I think
it's the layering of stuff that really
makes a room look finished and complete
and without that stuff it just kind of
looks off and naked so come with me as I
show you how to layer a living room so
this is basically how the living room
looked when we bought the house um she
had an a couch
she had a chair she had some pictures on
the walls and and basically that was it
and a lot of people this is what they do
when they're decorating their living
room they buy a really this isn't a
really nice expensive sofa but they buy
like a really nice expensive sofa you
put some pictures on the walls and then
they wonder why it just doesn't look
finished and I think really the secret
is layering when it comes to decorating
a living room is layering so even though
we already have a carpet here and a lot
of people say no no no never put a
carpet on the carpet I had this really
old carpet from our old house that I've
had actually since I was a teenager but
I really like the look of layering I
think it defines the area even if it's
putting it over an old carpet okay so I
threw down my old carpet this carpet is
older than dirt but the thing here's
what I like about area rugs even if it's
on top of carpet first of all this is
where like people sit and they have
their coffee and the kids have their
juice and they eat because it's on the
couch by the coffee table so people
always spill so a cheap area rug I think
I paid $70 for this like literally
thousands of years ago not thousands but
I was a really long time I'm old so it
anyways it spills on the cheap carpet so
it's not gonna wreck you know the carpet
you have in your whole house
and also it adds a pop of color I just
love putting carpets down to Center
space a lot of people say never ever do
that but whatever
don't listen everybody else I think it
looks a lot better okay so let's keep
going obviously it's really dark in this
room so I need some lights and I also to
make this a focal point I need to like
flank it on either side so I have these
really cheap tables I got from Walmart
because I needed end tables and I'm way
too cheap to buy expensive furniture
it's definitely looking better but I
think living rooms look really naked
without a coffee table and our coffee
table is really old and beat up but an
old beat-up coffee table is better than
no coffee table so much better right
um and I just put a table runner on it
because it is so scratched my daycare
kids used to bang on it drive cars in it
I have three kids so obviously it's not
going to be perfect but having the table
runner on it first of all it layers it
so it does make it look a little bit
nicer because it adds a pop of color but
also it hides how horribly scratched it
is so um let's continue with the most
important part if you ask me anyways
it's so dark in here so it's hard to see
but throw pillows so make the difference
these are just cheap cheap cheap throw
pillows that I got from Walmart but like
a couch without pillows I think it looks
so naked it's like going out of the
house without a shirt on it just seems
naked and weird so these are really
cheap I think I paid like $9 each for
these just plain throw pillows but you
see how it still feels kind of well to
me anyways first of all I hate that
windowsill but I like to follow the
three five seven rules so cuz I don't
know three five seven so when choosing
colors when choosing placements of
objects on on surfaces I like to do odd
numbers so for me this looks like a 1/2
right like a 1/2 but there seems like
there should be something in the middle
to make the 3/4 the focal point so I'm
just going to pop a
sure in there right on the windowsill
just to make the room look a little bit
better okay to me that looks a lot
better just because I might be OCD but I
need the three so I have the one two
three there so yeah hopefully you think
it looks better I definitely need some
blinds for my window so that's next on
the list
and yeah that's layering a living room
with pillows and throws and rugs and
lamps I think those are all the things
that are necessary to sort of pull the
room together so it doesn't look kind of
empty and naked so here's my final
finished living room and you can see
that I added blinds but I just think
it's the finishing touch that makes it
look a lot nicer this window is really
wide it's actually a hundred and two so
to find a blind for it was going to be
$200 ouch I didn't want to have to spend
that so what I did was just added two
blinds together I went to my local disks
or JYSK because the blinds there are
incredibly cheap and they were 16
dollars each you see I hung on to myself
they're kind of a little woo Joos gonna
kill me
but it's okay it looks okay you know
he's going to fix that um they were 16
dollars each so for 32 dollars by
budding two together because there's
that window sill anyways you don't
really notice it at all
and it looks great and I saved myself a
hundred and sixty dollars by using two
blinds and butting them together so if
you have a really big window do not
despair you don't need to get custom
blinds and you don't have to spend a
fortune to add window treatments these
panels I got here were only ten dollars
each and the blinds like I said were
sixteen dollars each which I thought was
a steal actually everything in this
living room was pennies like not a lot
of money at all I bought the lamps from
Walmart the pillows from Walmart even
the rug yes is from Walmart I'm a
Walmart shopper but you don't
to spend a lot to have a nicely pulled
together room it's not the prettiest
room I've ever seen but we're working
with what we have and I like it so
anyways those are your tips and we'll
see you next time